Skip to main content

Swiss federal authorities

Language dropdown English selected

DEFRITEN

Federal Office of Information Technology, Systems and Telecommunication FOITT

[![Logo with Swiss flag](/images/swiss-logo-flag.svg)![Logo with the URL and
title of the website](/images/swiss-logo-name.svg)FOITTFederal Office of
Information Technology, Systems and Telecommunication FOITT](</en>)

  * [Contact](</en/contact-foitt>)
  * [Media](</en/information-for-media-representatives>)
  * [ePortal: Services](<https://eportal.admin.ch/>)

Search

Search

  * [Themes and services](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Eisbrecher e-magazine](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Jobs and career](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [FOITT](<javascript:void\(0\)>)

  * ## Themes and services

[Overview ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)

  * [Reference projects ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Swiss Government Cloud ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Swiss Government PKI ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [CH-LOGIN ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Public Wireless Services ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
  * [Electronic signature ](<javascript:void\(0\)>)

  * [Homepage](</en>)
  * ## [Themes and services](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
    * [Themes and services](</en/themes-and-services>)
    * [Eisbrecher e-magazine](</en/eisbrecher-e-magazine>)
    * [Jobs and career](</en/jobs-career-foitt>)
    * [FOITT](</en/foitt>)
  * ## [Swiss Government Cloud](<javascript:void\(0\)>)
    * [Reference projects](</en/stories-en>)
    * [Swiss Government Cloud](</en/sgc-en>)
    * [Swiss Government PKI](</en/sg-pki-swiss-government-pki-en>)
    * [CH-LOGIN](<https://www.eiam.swiss/index.php?c=f!chlfaq!pub&l=en>)
    * [Public Wireless Services](</en/public-wireless-services-en>)
    * [Electronic signature](</en/electronic-signature>)

Published on 6 August 2024

# Swiss Government Cloud

With the Swiss Government Cloud (SGC) project, a new cloud infrastructure
tailored to the requirements and needs of the Confederation is to be set up at
the Federal Office of Information Technology, Systems and Telecommunication
(FOITT). The project will be carried out from 2025 to 2032.

## Brief summary

Between 2025 and 2032, a new hybrid multi-cloud infrastructure tailored to the
requirements and needs of the Confederation is to be set up at the FOITT as
part of the Swiss Government Cloud (SGC) project. It will consist of three
components: public cloud, public cloud on prem. and private cloud on prem. A
guarantee credit of CHF 246.9 million has been requested for this purpose. In
total, the project is expected to cost CHF 319.4 million. The SGC is designed
to meet the requirements and needs of the federal authorities. However,
cantons, cities and communes shall also be able to benefit from the service if
they are interested. By contrast, no services will be provided for the private
sector via the SGC.

## Background

Digitalisation is increasing the demand for innovative IT solutions and calls
for IT infrastructures that meet higher performance, reliability and security
requirements. In order to respond to this development, the federal government
intends to focus more on cloud solutions. To create the basis needed for this,
the Federal Council adopted the Federal Administration's cloud strategy on 11
December 2020. This envisages a hybrid multi-cloud approach, which means that
federal authorities should be able to obtain both internal federal cloud
services and cloud services supplied by several external providers, and also
combine them.

The federal government took a first step towards implementing the cloud
strategy in 2022 with the ‹Public Clouds Bund› procurement procedure, which
supplemented the Federal Administration's existing private cloud offering with
public cloud offerings from external providers. The SGC is the next stage in
the implementation of the cloud strategy.

## Project content

With the SGC, it is planned to set up a new hybrid multi-cloud infrastructure
tailored to the requirements and needs of the Confederation. Combining both
public and private cloud offerings, it is to provide the Federal
Administration with a uniform global solution for most of its cloud
activities. It will also replace the FOITT's existing cloud offerings.

To ensure that the SGC can be developed and used in a targeted manner, a
holistic approach is being pursued. Overall, investments in five key areas are
planned:

![](https://prod-bitadminch-hcms-
sdweb.imgix.net/2024/08/19/9354180b-6541-488d-8c6f-fc4c0ab4dac3.jpeg?auto=format)The
SGC project at a glance

### Establishment of a hybrid multi-cloud infrastructure

At the heart of the project lies the creation of a hybrid multi-cloud
infrastructure, consisting of three components:

#### Public cloud

The first component includes the public cloud services that the FOITT offers
its customers via established public cloud providers. The public cloud is
characterised in particular by its high degree of scalability and its broad
portfolio of innovative services. It is thus a decisive building block for
overcoming the federal government's digitalisation challenges. Cloud providers
must be able to offer public cloud services that meet additional requirements,
e.g. data storage in Switzerland or technical restrictions.

#### Public cloud on prem.

Within the framework of the second component, public cloud on prem., the
solutions of established public cloud providers are operated in federal data
centres. In this way, service users can also enjoy the benefits of public
cloud services locally (on premises) and process data as directly as possible
where it is generated (so-called edge computing). However, the public cloud on
prem. will be established only if there is a proven need, and capacity will be
increased only at the explicit request of a customer.

#### Private cloud on prem.

The third component of the SGC is the FOITT's private cloud. Unlike with the
public cloud, the entire cloud infrastructure is operated in the federal data
centre network. Data is stored and processed exclusively on the Federal
Administration's own systems. It should be possible for the private cloud on
prem. to be operated solely by the Federal Administration if necessary.

### Expansion of the network infrastructure

The network infrastructure is crucial to the success of the digital
transformation, as it forms the basis for all the services provided by the
FOITT's current and future hybrid multi-cloud infrastructure. With the
increased use of cloud services in the hybrid cloud model, the requirements
for a modern network infrastructure are also changing, e.g. in terms of
bandwidth availability, automation and security. For this reason, it is
planned to expand the network infrastructure accordingly as part of the
project.

### Expansion of cybersecurity

The aim of cybersecurity is to prevent the misuse and disruption of the IT
resources used to perform statutory tasks. However, the challenges in this
regard have changed radically: while IT systems used to be operated centrally
in data centres and workstations were located in federal buildings, today's
technology enables employees to work anywhere and to access the federal
network using various devices, a process in which the use of the public cloud
is also growing in importance. Implementing the hybrid multi-cloud strategy
therefore entails new cybersecurity challenges. In order to meet these
challenges, the cybersecurity area for action will ensure that data protection
is adapted to the new circumstances.

### Operating and commercial processes

The growing momentum in the digitalisation environment requires industrialised
and highly automated solutions for the technical operation of the hybrid
multi-cloud environment (operating processes) and for order processing
(commercial processes). Consequently, the entire process chain will be
automated within the framework of the operating and commercial processes area
for action.

### Training, consulting and governance

Administrative units must be able to use the SGC in a secure, efficient and
targeted manner. The training, consulting and governance area for action will
ensure that comprehensive support is available for the use of the hybrid
multi-cloud environment if needed. To this end, training and advisory services
will be developed and SGC-wide cloud governance established.

## Benefits

When using cloud services, it is always necessary to weigh up various
requirements in the areas of data protection, information security, digital
sovereignty, functionality and cost efficiency. With its three-part solution,
the SGC can cover the various requirements and needs of the administrative
units to the extent necessary. SGC-wide governance will ensure that solutions
operated in the SGC can be integrated into the federal system landscape as
easily as possible, thereby reducing costs and allowing valuable resources to
be invested in the digitalisation of business processes.

Furthermore, by providing access to innovation, the SGC will enable the
Confederation to reap the benefits of digitalisation. Its digital resilience
will also be strengthened, as customers will be able to respond quickly to new
developments in the business environment thanks to appropriate cloud-based
solutions. Regular investment will help ensure that the SGC also meets the
Confederation's digitalisation needs in the long term. Data protection and
information security are key core requirements for the future IT
infrastructure and are therefore given priority. Overall, the SGC will
establish an appropriate technical basis for efficiently implementing the main
upcoming digitalisation projects of the federal government, and thus make an
essential contribution to its digital transformation.

Cantons, cities and communes shall also be able to benefit from the service if
they are interested. By contrast, no services will be provided for the private
sector via the SGC.

## Timeframe

The project will be carried out from 2025 to 2032. The first functionalities
of the individual measures should be available as early as 2026. From 2027,
the volume of functionalities that can be used productively must be sufficient
to start migrating specialist applications from the FOITT's existing cloud
infrastructures. The migration is expected to be completed by the end of 2030.
Optimisation and further development work will be carried out on the SGC
during the migration and through to the end of the project in 2032, so as to
ensure that the solution remains fit for purpose and innovative.

## Financial implications

A guarantee credit of CHF 246.9 million has been requested. In total, the
project is expected to cost CHF 319.4 million, which also includes the FOITT's
own work and investments over the entire duration of the programme, as well as
expenditure that will be incurred already in 2024 for preparatory work.

No additional internal resources are planned for the SGC.

## Index

  * Brief summary 
  * Background 
  * Project content 
  * Benefits 
  * Timeframe 
  * Financial implications 

## The SGC in the context of the Federal Administration's cloud strategy

The SGC is based directly on the Federal Administration's cloud strategy
adopted by the Federal Council on 11 December 2020. It is the result of the
implementation of this strategy at the FOITT. It constitutes a global solution
for most of the Federal Administration's cloud activities and in the future
will cover its cloud levels I and IIa (public cloud component of the SGC), IIb
(public cloud on prem. component of the SGC) and III (private cloud on prem.
component of the SGC).

![](https://prod-bitadminch-hcms-
sdweb.imgix.net/2024/08/19/3142d39b-8af0-4024-85db-31aab51ee504.png?auto=format)

  * ### Further information

[Botschaft zu einem Verpflichtungskredit zum Aufbau einer Swiss Government
Cloud ](<https://www.fedlex.admin.ch/eli/fga/2024/1408/de>)(in German)

[Entwurf des Bundesbeschlusses zu einem Verpflichtungskredit zum Aufbau einer
Swiss Government Cloud
](<https://www.fedlex.admin.ch/eli/fga/2024/1409/de>)(in German)

[22.5.2024 Press release «Bundesrat verabschiedet Botschaft zum  
Aufbau einer Swiss Government
Cloud»](<https://www.efd.admin.ch/de/nsb?id=101104>) (in German)

[Curia Vista: Aufbau einer Swiss Government Cloud (SGC).
Verpflichtungskredit](<https://www.parlament.ch/de/ratsbetrieb/suche-curia-
vista/geschaeft?AffairId=20240018>) (in German)

[Federal Cloud Strategy and Cloud Tier
Model](<https://www.bk.admin.ch/bk/en/home/digitale-transformation-ikt-
lenkung/bundesarchitektur/cloud.html>)

  * ### Images

    * #### [Image_Area for Action SGC_RGB_CMYKZIP1.33 MB22 May 2024](<https://backend.bit.admin.ch/fileservice/sdweb-docs-prod-bitadminch-files/files/2024/08/20/5a2ea9ec-e758-446f-9d15-71d9d819c51c.zip>)
    * #### [Image_SGC and Cloud Tier Model_RGB_CMYKZIP1.36 MB22 May 2024](<https://backend.bit.admin.ch/fileservice/sdweb-docs-prod-bitadminch-files/files/2024/08/20/e66d25e5-da76-4c3b-af0b-ade29c827d8e.zip>)

#### Share content

[](<https://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https://www.bit.admin.ch/en/sgc-en>
"Share on
Facebook")[](<https://twitter.com/share?url=https://www.bit.admin.ch/en/sgc-
en> "Share on X")[](<https://www.linkedin.com/sharing/share-
offsite/?url=https://www.bit.admin.ch/en/sgc-en> "Share on
LinkedIn")[](<https://www.xing.com/spi/shares/new?url=https://www.bit.admin.ch/en/sgc-
en> "Share on Xing")[](<https://api.whatsapp.com/send?text=Share on
Whatsapp%20https://www.bit.admin.ch/en/sgc-en> "Share on Whatsapp")

* * *

Copy URL

We use the Matomo analysis tool to optimise our website to meet your needs.
Your use of the website is recorded anonymously. This means that no personal
data is sent or stored. If you do not agree to this, you can opt out of data
collection by Matomo and still use this website without restrictions. Further
information on this can be found on the Terms and conditions page.

AgreeContinue without data collection

### About us

The FOITT is the largest IT service provider in the Federal Administration.

© BIT / OFIT / UFIT / FOITT

### Keep up to date

[ BIT_OFIT on X ](<https://twitter.com/BIT_OFIT>)[
YouTube](<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRmyDs65jNHpQJFHyXdkuRA>)[
LinkedIn](<https://www.linkedin.com/company/bit-ofit>)

### Further information

[ Contact](</en/contact-foitt>)[ Jobs and career](</en/jobs-career-foitt>)

  * [Publication details](</en/impressum-en>)
  * [Terms and conditions](<https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/terms-and-conditions.html>)

